Arrival

Habitable planets were hard to come by in our home galaxy. When we found the Facility, an ancient artificial ring world, we immediately began colonizing it. Millions already called it home when we Jumped. It wasn't the archeologists' fault. They didn't know what they were looking at when they found the control center.

When we Jumped, the star we were orbiting didn't follow us. Some escaped, but now the Facility floats in space, a frozen graveyard that most avoid. Our home galaxy, the Spiral, looms large in the sky, a reminder of where we came from. Will we ever return?


Communities

Few survived the journey to the Forge, and we are scattered to the winds in this perilous place. Colonies spread quickly in the generations that followed the Jump. With so much new, uninhabited space to explore, it was often easier to solve disputes by setting off into the darkness rather than stay and try to reconcile differences.


Iron

We have materials that are lighter, stronger, and more resilient, but when you have nothing else, it's always iron that you can rely on. To swear on iron is to say that you will see your deed through to the end, no matter what stands in your way.


Laws

Laws exist, in places where there's someone to enforce them.


Religion

Our faith is as diverse as our people.


Magic

Unnatural energies flow through the Forge. Its manifestations are chaotic and unpredictable. The credulous call it magic. Others think they know better.


Communication and Data

Information is life. We rely on a guild of spaceborne couriers, the Heralds, to transport messages and data across the vast distances between settlements.


Medicine

The Menders are an order of sworn healers who preserve our medical knowledge and train new generations of caregivers.


Artificial Intelligence

The vestiges of advanced machine intelligence are coveted and wielded by those in power.


War

Here in the Forge, resources are too precious to support organized fighting forces or advanced weaponry.


Lifeforms

This is a perilous and often inhospitable galaxy, but life finds a way.


Precursors

Over eons, a vast number of civilizations rose and fell within the Forge. Today, the folk we call grubs - scavenger crews and audacious explorers - delve into the mysterious monuments and ruins of those ancient beings.


Horrors

Put enough alcohol in a spacer and they'll tell you stories of ghost ships crewed by vengeful undead. It's nonsense.
